## Data Projects
This repository contains all data-related projects I have worked on and successfully completed. A description of each project is found below:

# [Bikeshare Project](https://github.com/Ithielwen/Data-Projects/tree/main/Bikeshare%20Project)
In this project, you will make use of Python to explore data related to bike share systems for three major cities in the United States - Chicago, New York City, and Washington. A script has been written to import the data and answer interesting questions about it by computing descriptive statistics. The script also takes in raw input to create an interactive experience in the termincal to present these statistics.

# [Deforestation Project](https://github.com/Ithielwen/Data-Projects/tree/main/Deforestation%20Project)
You're a data analyst for ForestQuery, a non-profit organization, on a mission to reduce deforestation around the world and which raises awareness about this important environmental topic. Your executive director and her leadership team members are looking to understand which countries and regions around the world seem to have forests that have been shrinking in size, and also which countries and regions have the most significant forest area, both in terms of amount and percent of total area. The hope is that these findings can help inform initiatives, communications, and personnel allocation to achieve the largest impact with the precious few resources that the organization has at its disposal. You've been able to find tables of data online dealing with forestation as well as total land area and region groupings, and you've brought these tables together into a database that you'd like to query to answer some of the most important questions in preparation for a meeting with ForestQuery.

# [Flight Delays and Cancellations](https://github.com/Ithielwen/Data-Projects/tree/main/Flight%20Delays%20and%20Cancellations)
In this project, you'll create visualizations to reveal insights from a data set. You will create visualizations that tell a story or highlight patterns in the dataset. Your work should be a reflection of the theory and practice of data visualization, such as visual encodings, design principles and effective communication.

# [NYSE Project](https://github.com/Ithielwen/Data-Projects/tree/main/NYSE%20Project)
In this project, you will analyze real life data fron the New York Stock exchange. You will be drawing a subset of a large dataset provided by Kaggle that contains historical financial data from S&P 500 companies. In this project, you will go through the process of calculating summary statistics, drawing any inference from the statistics, calculating business metrics, and using models to forecast future growth prospects for the companies. The goal is for you to perform an analysis and also create visual tools to communicate the results in informative ways.

# [Unicorn Project](https://github.com/Ithielwen/Data-Projects/tree/main/Unicorn%20Project)
Unicorn is a family business and is owned by two owners who are very invested in their business. They already have a small data analytics team but want to expand it significantly in the next few months. They see you as a candidate for DA position and are providing you with a sample dataset from their sales data. Your task is to analyze the data, find interesting insights and identify weak areas and opportunites for Unicorn to boost their business growth.

# [Twitter Project](https://github.com/Ithielwen/Data-Projects/tree/main/Twitter%20Project)
Using Python and its libraries, you will gather data from a variety of sources and in a variety of formats, assess its quality and tidiness, then clean it. You will document your wrangling efforts in a Jupyter Notebook, plus showcase them through analyses and visualizations using Python (and its libraries) and/or SQL.

# [Prosper Loan Exploratory Project](https://github.com/Ithielwen/Data-Projects/tree/main/Prosper%20Loan%20Exploratory%20Project)
This project has two parts that demonstrate the importance and value of data visualization techniques in the data analysis process. In the first part, you will use Python visualization libraries to systematically explore a selected dataset, starting from plots of single variables and building up to plots of multiple variables. In the second part, you will produce a short presentation that illustrates interesting properties, trends, and relationships that you discovered in your selected dataset. The primary method of conveying your findings will be through transforming your exploratory visualizations from the first part into polished, explanatory visualizations.
